<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY kappname "&ark;">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<refentry lang="&language;">
<refentryinfo>
<title>KDE User's Manual</title>
<author><personname>
<firstname>Lauri</firstname>
<surname>Watts</surname>
</personname>
&Lauri.Watts.mail;</author>
<date>February 25, 2005</date>
<productname>K Desktop Environment</productname>
</refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle><command>&kappname;</command></refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv>
<refname><command>ark</command></refname>
<refpurpose>A &kde; archiving tool</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>ark</command>
<group>
<option>--extract</option>
<option>--extract-to</option>
<option>--add</option>
<option>--add-to</option>
<option>--guess-name</option>
</group>
<arg choice="opt">folder</arg>
<arg choice="opt">files</arg>
<arg choice="opt">archive</arg>
<arg choice="opt">KDE Generic Options</arg>
<arg choice="opt">Qt Generic Options</arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<refsect1>
<title>Description</title>
<para>&kappname; is a program for managing various archive formats
within the &kde; environment. Archives can be viewed, extracted, created
and modified from within &kappname;. The program can handle various
formats such as <application>tar</application>,
<application>gzip</application>, <application>bzip2</application>,
<application>zip</application>, <application>rar</application> and
<application>lha</application> (if appropriate command-line programs are
installed). &kappname; can work closely with &konqueror; in the &kde;
environment to handle archives, if you install the &konqueror;
Integration plugin available in the kdeaddons package.</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Options</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>--extract</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Open extract dialog, quit when finished</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>--extract-to
<replaceable>folder</replaceable>
<replaceable>archive</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem><para>Extract <replaceable>archive</replaceable> to
<replaceable>folder</replaceable>.  Quit when finished. 
<replaceable>folder</replaceable> will be created if it does not
exist.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>--add <replaceable>files</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Ask for the name of the archive to add
<replaceable>files</replaceable> to. Quit when finished.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>--add-to <replaceable>files</replaceable>
<replaceable>archive</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Add <replaceable>files</replaceable> to
<replaceable>archive</replaceable>.  Quit when finished. 
<replaceable>archive</replaceable> will be created if it does not
exist.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>--guess-name <replaceable>folder</replaceable>
<replaceable>archive</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Used with <option>--extract-to</option>.  When specified,
<replaceable>archive</replaceable> will be extracted to a
subfolder of <replaceable>folder</replaceable> whose name will be
the name of <replaceable>archive without the
filename extension.</replaceable></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Environment</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>$<envar>PATH</envar></term>
<listitem>
<para>The commandline programs to deal with the archives you wish to
handle in &kappname; must be available in your
$<envar>PATH</envar>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Examples</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><userinput><command>ark</command> <option>--extract-to
--guess-name</option> <parameter>.</parameter>
<parameter>An-Archive.tar.bz2</parameter></userinput></term>
<listitem>
<para>Will extract <filename>An-Archive.tar.bz2</filename> into a
folder named <filename class="directory">An-Archive</filename> in the
current directory.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><userinput><command>ark</command> <option>--add-to</option>
<filename>*.jpg</filename> <filename>pictures.tar.bz2</filename></userinput></term>
<listitem>
<para>Add all files ending in *.jpg to an archive named
<filename>pictures.tar.bz2</filename>, creating it if it doesn't
already exist.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>See Also</title>
<para>tar(1), gzip(1), bzip2(1), zip(1), rar(1), lha(1)</para>

<para>More detailed user documentation is available from <ulink
url="help:/ark">help:/ark</ulink>
(either enter this <acronym>URL</acronym> into &konqueror;, or run
<userinput><command>khelpcenter</command>
<parameter>help:/ark</parameter></userinput>).</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Authors</title>
<para>&ark; is maintained by
<personname><firstname>Henrique</firstname><surname>Pinto</surname></personname> <email>stampede@coltec.ufmg.br</email></para>
<para>This man page was written by &Lauri.Watts;
&Lauri.Watts.mail; for &kde; 3.4.</para>
</refsect1>

</refentry>
